refinements/api/API-004-bulk-operations-endpoints-import-export.md, before:

---
id: API-004
title: Bulk operations endpoints (import/export)
branch_name: api-004-bulk-operations-endpoints-import-export
epic: api
status: draft
priority: medium
estimate: "5sp"
dependencies: [API-001]
labels: [api, bulk, import, export, operations]
created: 2025-08-28
author: planning-agent
owner: implementation-team
market: null
layer: null
last_updated: 2025-08-28
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: null
  input_path: null
  notes: null
---

# API-004: Bulk operations endpoints (import/export)

## User Story
**As a** system administrator or data analyst  
**I want** bulk import and export capabilities for stories  
**So that** I can efficiently migrate data, create backups, and perform batch operations on large sets of stories

## Value Proposition
Enables efficient data migration, backup/restore operations, and bulk story management, reducing time required for large-scale story operations and enabling integration with external systems.

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] POST /api/v1/export/stories - Export stories to JSON or CSV format
- [ ] POST /api/v1/import/stories - Import stories from JSON or CSV
- [ ] GET /api/v1/export/markdown/{epic} - Export epic stories as markdown files
- [ ] Bulk validation during import with detailed error reporting
- [ ] Import conflict resolution (skip, overwrite, or merge options)
- [ ] Progress tracking for long-running bulk operations
- [ ] Asynchronous processing for large datasets
- [ ] Export filtering options (by epic, status, date range)
- [ ] Import preview mode to validate data before actual import
- [ ] Bulk status updates and field modifications

## Technical Notes
- Use asynchronous task queue (Celery) for large operations
- Implement streaming for large file exports to manage memory
- Include data validation and conflict detection during import
- Support multiple file formats with proper content-type detection
- Provide detailed operation logs and progress reporting
- Consider implementing resumable imports for large datasets

## Definition of Done
- [ ] All acceptance criteria met
- [ ] Performance tests with large datasets (1000+ stories)
- [ ] Error handling and recovery for failed operations
- [ ] Import validation prevents data corruption
- [ ] Export formats properly formatted and parseable
- [ ] Async operation status can be monitored via API

## References
- [TOOL-001 Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md)
- [Bulk Operations from Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md#bulk-operations)
- [Celery Documentation](https://docs.celeryproject.org/)

---
**Story Lifecycle:**
- Created: 2025-08-28 by planning-agent
- Started: [date] by [implementer]  
- Completed: [date]
- Accepted: [date]

Commit message:

🚀 TOOL-001: Add workflow automation engine with AI-powered event triggers
✨ Transform plan_pipe into self-managing project intelligence platform
🔄 Event-driven workflows: completion → acceptance → dependency cascade
🤖 AI-powered workflow optimization and smart pattern recognition
📊 Complete execution monitoring with audit trails and retry logic
⚡ Pre-built templates: acceptance testing, dependency resolution, epic tracking
�� Zero manual overhead - stories flow through validation automatically

Epic enhancement: From simple API to autonomous project orchestration 💪

refinements/api/API-004-bulk-operations-endpoints-import-export.md, after:

---
id: API-004
title: Bulk operations endpoints (import/export)
branch_name: api-004-bulk-operations-endpoints-import-export
epic: api
status: draft
priority: medium
estimate: "5sp"
dependencies: [API-001]
labels: [api, bulk, import, export, operations]
created: 2025-08-28
author: planning-agent
owner: implementation-team
market: null
layer: null
last_updated: 2025-08-28
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: null
  input_path: null
  notes: null
---

# API-004: Bulk operations endpoints (import/export)

## User Story
**As a** system administrator or data analyst  
**I want** bulk import and export capabilities for stories  
**So that** I can efficiently migrate data, create backups, and perform batch operations on large sets of stories

## Value Proposition
Enables efficient data migration, backup/restore operations, and bulk story management, reducing time required for large-scale story operations and enabling integration with external systems.

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] POST /api/v1/export/stories - Export stories to JSON or CSV format with backlog filtering
- [ ] POST /api/v1/import/stories - Import stories from JSON or CSV with backlog assignment
- [ ] GET /api/v1/export/markdown/{epic} - Export epic stories as markdown files
- [ ] POST /api/v1/stories/bulk-move - Move multiple stories between backlogs
- [ ] Bulk validation during import with detailed error reporting
- [ ] Import conflict resolution (skip, overwrite, or merge options)
- [ ] Progress tracking for long-running bulk operations
- [ ] Asynchronous processing for large datasets
- [ ] Export filtering options (by backlog, epic, status, date range)
- [ ] Import preview mode to validate data before actual import
- [ ] Bulk status updates and field modifications across backlogs

## Technical Notes
- Use asynchronous task queue (Celery) for large operations
- Implement streaming for large file exports to manage memory
- Include data validation and conflict detection during import
- Support multiple file formats with proper content-type detection
- Provide detailed operation logs and progress reporting
- Consider implementing resumable imports for large datasets

## Definition of Done
- [ ] All acceptance criteria met
- [ ] Performance tests with large datasets (1000+ stories)
- [ ] Error handling and recovery for failed operations
- [ ] Import validation prevents data corruption
- [ ] Export formats properly formatted and parseable
- [ ] Async operation status can be monitored via API

## References
- [TOOL-001 Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md)
- [Bulk Operations from Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md#bulk-operations)
- [Celery Documentation](https://docs.celeryproject.org/)

---
**Story Lifecycle:**
- Created: 2025-08-28 by planning-agent
- Started: [date] by [implementer]  
- Completed: [date]
- Accepted: [date]
