refinements/infrastructure/INF-013-docker-postgresql-database-setup-story-schema.md, before:

---
id: INF-013
title: Docker PostgreSQL database setup with story schema
branch_name: inf-013-docker-postgresql-database-setup-story-schema
epic: infrastructure
status: draft
priority: high
estimate: "3sp"
dependencies: []
labels: [database, postgresql, docker, schema]
created: 2025-08-28
author: planning-agent
owner: implementation-team
market: null
layer: null
last_updated: 2025-08-28
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: null
  input_path: null
  notes: null
---

# INF-013: Docker PostgreSQL database setup with story schema

## User Story
**As a** system administrator  
**I want** a containerized PostgreSQL database with a proper schema for story management  
**So that** the API service can store and query story data efficiently for reporting and analytics

## Value Proposition
Provides the persistent data layer required for advanced querying, reporting, and analytics capabilities while maintaining data integrity and performance.

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] PostgreSQL Docker container configured with proper initialization scripts
- [ ] Database schema includes stories table with all required fields
- [ ] story_dependencies table for managing story relationships
- [ ] status_history table for audit trail of status changes
- [ ] Database indexes optimized for common query patterns
- [ ] Database migrations system set up for schema evolution
- [ ] Connection pooling configured for API service
- [ ] Database backup and restore procedures documented
- [ ] Environment variables for database configuration
- [ ] Health check queries for monitoring database status

## Technical Notes
- PostgreSQL chosen for JSONB support for metadata and robust ACID compliance
- Schema should support both current story structure and future enhancements
- Consider partitioning for status_history table if high volume expected
- Include proper foreign key constraints and data validation
- Use database-level defaults where appropriate

## Definition of Done
- [ ] All acceptance criteria met
- [ ] Database container starts successfully in Docker Compose
- [ ] Schema migration scripts tested and documented
- [ ] Connection from API service verified
- [ ] Database performance benchmarked for expected load
- [ ] Backup/restore procedures tested

## References
- [TOOL-001 Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md)
- [PostgreSQL Docker Documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres)
- [Database Schema from Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md#database-schema)

---
**Story Lifecycle:**
- Created: 2025-08-28 by planning-agent
- Started: [date] by [implementer]  
- Completed: [date]
- Accepted: [date]

Commit message:

🚀 TOOL-001: Add workflow automation engine with AI-powered event triggers
✨ Transform plan_pipe into self-managing project intelligence platform
🔄 Event-driven workflows: completion → acceptance → dependency cascade
🤖 AI-powered workflow optimization and smart pattern recognition
📊 Complete execution monitoring with audit trails and retry logic
⚡ Pre-built templates: acceptance testing, dependency resolution, epic tracking
�� Zero manual overhead - stories flow through validation automatically

Epic enhancement: From simple API to autonomous project orchestration 💪

refinements/infrastructure/INF-013-docker-postgresql-database-setup-story-schema.md, after:

---
id: INF-013
title: Docker PostgreSQL database setup with story schema
branch_name: inf-013-docker-postgresql-database-setup-story-schema
epic: infrastructure
status: draft
priority: high
estimate: "3sp"
dependencies: []
labels: [database, postgresql, docker, schema]
created: 2025-08-28
author: planning-agent
owner: implementation-team
market: null
layer: null
last_updated: 2025-08-28
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: null
  input_path: null
  notes: null
---

# INF-013: Docker PostgreSQL database setup with multi-project story schema

## User Story
**As a** system administrator  
**I want** a containerized PostgreSQL database with a proper schema for multi-project story management  
**So that** the plan_pipe API service can store and query story data efficiently across multiple projects for reporting and analytics

## Value Proposition
Provides the persistent data layer required for advanced querying, reporting, and analytics capabilities across multiple projects while maintaining data integrity and performance in a multi-project environment.

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] PostgreSQL Docker container configured with proper initialization scripts
- [ ] Database schema includes projects table for multi-project support
- [ ] Database schema includes backlogs table for multi-backlog support within projects
- [ ] Stories table with project_id and backlog_id foreign key references
- [ ] story_dependencies table for managing story relationships (including cross-project)
- [ ] project_dependencies table for cross-project relationships
- [ ] project_members table for access control and team management
- [ ] status_history table for audit trail of status changes
- [ ] Database indexes optimized for common query patterns including multi-project queries
- [ ] Database migrations system set up for schema evolution
- [ ] Connection pooling configured for API service
- [ ] Database backup and restore procedures documented
- [ ] Environment variables for database configuration
- [ ] Health check queries for monitoring database status

## Technical Notes
- PostgreSQL chosen for JSONB support for metadata and robust ACID compliance
- Schema should support multi-project architecture with proper foreign key relationships
- Consider partitioning for status_history table if high volume expected across projects
- Include proper foreign key constraints and data validation for project and backlog relationships
- Use database-level defaults where appropriate
- Implement efficient indexes for cross-project queries and dependency analysis
- Support git submodule integration through project metadata fields

## Definition of Done
- [ ] All acceptance criteria met
- [ ] Database container starts successfully in Docker Compose
- [ ] Schema migration scripts tested and documented
- [ ] Connection from API service verified
- [ ] Database performance benchmarked for expected load
- [ ] Backup/restore procedures tested

## References
- [TOOL-001 Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md)
- [PostgreSQL Docker Documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres)
- [Database Schema from Proposal](../../proposals/TOOL-001-dockerized-story-workflow-api.md#database-schema)

---
**Story Lifecycle:**
- Created: 2025-08-28 by planning-agent
- Started: [date] by [implementer]  
- Completed: [date]
- Accepted: [date]
