backlog/models/MODEL_TRAINING_EVALUATION.md, before:

---
id: MODEL_TRAINING_EVALUATION
epic: training
status: draft
owner: TBD
priority: high
estimate: 8
dependencies: []
tags: [model, training, evaluation]
market: null
layer: Gold
last_updated: 2025-08-24
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: Gold
  input_path: null
  notes: null
---

# User Story: Model Training & Evaluation

## Overview
**As a** betting analyst  
**I want** trained machine learning models with transparent metrics  
**So that** I can make accurate predictions with measurable confidence

## Value Proposition
Provides predictive power for betting decisions across different markets (moneyline, against the spread, over/under). Transparent evaluation metrics build trust and allow continuous improvement.

## Acceptance Criteria
- Models can be trained for different betting markets
- Training process is reproducible and configurable
- Performance metrics include accuracy, AUC, and betting ROI
- Models are stored with metadata for version tracking
- Evaluation results are clearly documented

## Technical Requirements
- Implement `busta train <market>` command for model training
- Create training pipelines that use gold features
- Develop evaluation framework with multiple metrics
- Implement model storage and versioning
- Create documentation for model performance

## Implementation Plan
1. Design model architecture for each market type
2. Implement training pipelines with appropriate algorithms
3. Develop comprehensive evaluation framework
4. Create model storage and versioning system
5. Build reporting components for model performance

## Definition of Done
- Models can be trained with `busta train` command
- Metrics show performance better than baseline strategies
- Models are stored with appropriate metadata
- Documentation exists for model approaches and performance

## Related Features
- Gold Feature Store (dependency)
- Predictions & Outputs (will use this feature)

Commit message:

feat: comprehensive backlog grooming for top 20 stories
Groomed 9 high-priority stories with proper acceptance criteria, business value, and technical approaches. Added backlog_groomer.py utility and cleaned up one-time scripts. All top 20 stories now ready for implementation.

backlog/models/MODEL_TRAINING_EVALUATION.md, after:

---
id: MODEL_TRAINING_EVALUATION
epic: training
status: completed
owner: AI Assistant
priority: high
estimate: 8
dependencies: []
tags: [model, training, evaluation]
market: null
layer: Gold
last_updated: 2025-08-29
completed_date: 2025-08-25
implementation_notes: 'Successfully implemented as MOD-006 with comprehensive training pipeline and evaluation metrics. See MOD-006 for full implementation details.'
emit_metadata:
  source_id: null
  layer: Gold
  input_path: null
  notes: 'Completed - implemented as MOD-006'
---

# User Story: Model Training & Evaluation

## Overview
**As a** betting analyst  
**I want** trained machine learning models with transparent metrics  
**So that** I can make accurate predictions with measurable confidence

## Value Proposition
Provides predictive power for betting decisions across different markets (moneyline, against the spread, over/under). Transparent evaluation metrics build trust and allow continuous improvement.

## Acceptance Criteria
- Models can be trained for different betting markets
- Training process is reproducible and configurable
- Performance metrics include accuracy, AUC, and betting ROI
- Models are stored with metadata for version tracking
- Evaluation results are clearly documented

## Technical Requirements
- Implement `busta train <market>` command for model training
- Create training pipelines that use gold features
- Develop evaluation framework with multiple metrics
- Implement model storage and versioning
- Create documentation for model performance

## Implementation Plan
1. Design model architecture for each market type
2. Implement training pipelines with appropriate algorithms
3. Develop comprehensive evaluation framework
4. Create model storage and versioning system
5. Build reporting components for model performance

## Definition of Done
- Models can be trained with `busta train` command
- Metrics show performance better than baseline strategies
- Models are stored with appropriate metadata
- Documentation exists for model approaches and performance

## Related Features
- Gold Feature Store (dependency)
- Predictions & Outputs (will use this feature)
