backlog/modeling/MOD-003-probability-calibration.md, before:

---
id: MOD-003
epic: llm_backlog
status: draft
owner: modeling-team
priority: medium
estimate: 3sp
dependencies: [MOD-001]
tags: [modeling, calibration]
market: null
layer: Gold
last_updated: 2025-08-24
emit_metadata:
  source_id: calibration
  layer: Gold
  input_path: models/calibration/
  notes: Probability calibration & reliability curves
---

# MOD-003: Probability calibration & reliability curves

- **Overview**: As a quant, I want calibrated probabilities so that our 60% means 60% in the long run.
- **Value Proposition**: Calibration improves bankroll management and trust in the system.

## Acceptance Criteria
- Reliability plots for ATS/ML/Total created for baseline and stacker.
- Isotonic regression selected unless sample size too small (fallback to Platt).
- Calibration error reported and tracked over time.

## Technical Requirements
- Bin-based reliability and Brier decomposition.
- Store calibration maps with model metadata.
- Unit tests for calibration functions.

## Implementation Plan
- Implement calibration utilities.
- Integrate into training and inference pipelines.
- Generate plots and tables in `reports/`.

## Definition of Done
- Plots and metrics present; CI test covers calibration edge cases.
- Inference applies correct calibration map for model version.

## Related Features
MOD-001, MOD-002, EVAL-001

Commit message:

📋 backlog: comprehensive grooming session completed
🎯 Groomed 5 high-priority stories for implementation readiness:
- LLM-001: Enhanced feature extraction with detailed acceptance criteria
- LLM-002: Improved traceability with audit capabilities
- MOD-001: Refined baseline models with performance targets
- MOD-002: Enhanced stacker with explainability features
- MOD-003: Added calibration monitoring and visualization

🔧 Corrected prioritization issues:
- Removed completed MOD-004/MOD-005 (were ADH-017/ADH-008)
- Updated dependency chains for sequential model development
- Changed 3 stories from 'draft' to 'backlog' status

📊 Updated strategic priorities:
- Sprint focus: ADH-015, LLM-001, MOD-001 (next 2 weeks)
- Month 1: LLM-002, MOD-002, MOD-003 (model excellence)
- Dependencies: ADH-015 → MOD-001 → MOD-002 → MOD-003

✅ All top 6 priorities now have validated dependencies and implementation plans

backlog/modeling/MOD-003-probability-calibration.md, after:

---
id: MOD-003
epic: llm_backlog
status: draft
owner: modeling-team
priority: medium
estimate: 3sp
dependencies: [MOD-001]
tags: [modeling, calibration]
market: null
layer: Gold
last_updated: 2025-08-29
emit_metadata:
  source_id: calibration
  layer: Gold
  input_path: models/calibration/
  notes: Probability calibration & reliability curves
---

# MOD-003: Probability calibration & reliability curves

- **Overview**: As a quant, I want calibrated probabilities so that our 60% means 60% in the long run.
- **Value Proposition**: Calibration improves bankroll management and trust in the system.

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] **Reliability Analysis**: Reliability plots for ATS/ML/Total created for baseline and stacker models.
- [ ] **Calibration Method**: Isotonic regression selected unless sample size too small (fallback to Platt).
- [ ] **Error Tracking**: Calibration error reported and tracked over time with < 0.05 target.
- [ ] **Visualization**: Interactive calibration plots available in dashboard.
- [ ] **Model Comparison**: Clear comparison between calibrated vs uncalibrated performance.

## Technical Requirements
- [ ] Bin-based reliability and Brier decomposition with confidence intervals.
- [ ] Store calibration maps with model metadata and version control.
- [ ] Unit tests for calibration functions with edge cases.
- [ ] Automated calibration drift detection.
- [ ] GPU-accelerated calibration for large datasets.

## Implementation Plan
1. **Week 1**: Implement calibration utilities and reliability curve generation
2. **Week 2**: Integrate into training and inference pipelines with validation
3. **Week 3**: Generate plots and tables in `reports/`, add dashboard integration

## Definition of Done
- [ ] Plots and metrics present in `reports/calibration/` directory.
- [ ] CI test covers calibration edge cases and performance thresholds.
- [ ] Inference applies correct calibration map for model version automatically.
- [ ] Documentation includes calibration maintenance procedures.
- [ ] Calibration improves betting strategy performance by ≥ 1% in backtesting.

## Related Features
MOD-001, MOD-002, EVAL-001, MOD-004
